Aden (Arabic: عدن ʻAdan) is a governorate of Yemen, including the city of Aden.  At the 2004 census, it had a population of 589,419.  The ancient capital, the port city of Crater, was located here.
Aden was under British rule in the period from 1839 to 1967. In 1967, after years of struggle, Aden and other southern governorates gained their independence. The city of Aden subsequently became the capital of South Yemen between 1967 and 1990. In 1990, both South Yemen and North Yemen combined to form the present Republic of Yemen. Aden is now the commercial capital of the Republic of Yemen.The archipelago of Socotra was part of the Governorate of Aden, but it was attached to Hadhramaut Governorate in 2004.On 6 December 2015, the governor of Aden, General Jaafar Mohammed Saad, was killed in a car bomb attack that also killed six members of his entourage. Several other bystanders were wounded. Shortly after the attack, the Islamic State claimed responsibility.
On July 29, 2020, Ahmed Hamed Lamlas, the STC secretary general was appointed by the Yemeni in-exile  president as new governor of Aden as a result of the modified version of the Riyadh agreement signed between the Yemeni government and the southern transitional council representatives.
Adam is the name given in Genesis 1-5 to the first human. Beyond its use as the name of the first man, adam is also used in the Bible as a pronoun, individually as "a human" and in a collective sense as "mankind". Genesis 1 tells of God's creation of the world and its creatures, including adam, meaning humankind; in Genesis 2 God forms "Adam", this time meaning a single male human, out of "the dust of the ground", places him in the Garden of Eden, and forms a woman, Eve, as his helpmate; in Genesis 3 Adam and Eve eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge and God condemns Adam to labour on the earth for his food and to return to it on his death; Genesis 4 deals with the birth of Adam's sons, and Genesis 5 lists his descendants from Seth to Noah.
The Genesis creation myth was adopted by both Christianity and Islam, and the name of Adam accordingly appears in the Christian scriptures and in the Quran. He also features in later folkloric and mystical elaborations in Judaism, Christianity, and Gnostic religions.


Mubarak Al-Kabeer Governorate (Arabic: محافظة مبارك الكبير, IPA: [Muḥāfaẓat Mubārak al-Kabīr]) is one of the governorates of Kuwait which mainly houses residential areas of Kuwait City. It was formed in 2000 when the Hawalli Governorate was split in two, and was formerly called Qurain Governorate. Cities within the governorate include:


ʿAdān (Arabic: العدان, Gulf Arabic pronunciation: il-ʿAdān) is a residential area in the Mubarak Al-Kabeer Governorate in Kuwait, located approximately 18 kilometres (≈ 11 miles) from the centre of Kuwait City.


This is a list of countries by easternmost point on land (dependent territories included).
The order does not always reflect the proximity of the country's territory to the 180th meridian. In such a case there would be three both the very westernmost and the very easternmost countries or territories, Russia, Fiji, and Antarctica, as the 180th meridian passes through them on land. Instead, for Russia, New Zealand, Fiji, the United States, and Kiribati, which have territory on both sides of the 180th meridian, the given easternmost point of the country is the easternmost point in the direction of travel. The United States and Kiribati have most of their territory east of the 180th meridian, in the Western Hemisphere, so they are considered to belong to the westernmost countries with their territory stretching as far to the west as beyond the 180th meridian into the Eastern Hemisphere. Conversely, Russia, New Zealand, and Fiji have most of their territory west of the 180th meridian, in the Eastern Hemisphere, so they are considered to belong to the easternmost countries with their territory stretching as far to the east as beyond the 180th meridian into the Western Hemisphere.
ISO 3166-2:YE is the entry for Yemen in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.
Currently for Yemen, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 1 municipality and 21 governorates. The municipality Sana'a is the capital of the country and has special status equal to the governorates.
Each code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is YE, the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Yemen. The second part is two letters.


Adan Hospital (Arabic: مستشفى العدان) is the main public general hospital in Al Ahmadi Governorate, Kuwait. Its founded in 1986.


This is a list of FIPS 10-4 region codes from V-Z, using a standardized name format, and cross-linking to articles.
On September 2, 2008, FIPS 10-4 was one of ten standards withdrawn by NIST as a Federal Information Processing Standard. The list here is the last version of codes. For earlier versions, see link below.


This is a list of topics related to Yemen.
This is one of a series of comprehensive lists of continents, countries, and first level administrative country subdivisions such as states, provinces, and territories, as well as certain political and geographic features of substantial area. Some divisions are listed twice, with one listing including territory that is excluded in the other for various reasons, including territorial disputes. Names of currently existing countries are bolded, while names of geographic features are italicized. There is intentional overlap between the lists in order to maximize ease of use.


ʽAmran (Arabic: عمران, romanized: ʽAmrān) is one of the governorates of Yemen.
ʿAmrān (Arabic: عمران; Old South Arabian: 𐩲𐩣𐩧𐩬 ʿmrn) is a small city in western central Yemen. It is the capital of the 'Amran Governorate, and was formerly in the Sana'a Governorate. It is located 52.9 kilometres (32.9 mi) by road northwest of the Yemeni capital of Sana'a, at the upper (southern) end of the al-Bawn plain. According to the 2004 census it had a population of 76,863, and an estimated population of 92,763 in 2013.


Shaharah Bridge (Arabic: جسر شهارة) is an arch bridge in Yemen. It was constructed in the 17th century to connect two villages at the top of two mountains in Shaharah District, Amran Governorate, northern Yemen. It is 300 feet deep, 65 feet long, and 9 feet wide. The bridge is the only path to Shaharah, the town it is named after. It is one of the most famous bridges and tourist attractions in Yemen.


The governorates of Yemen are divided into 333 districts (as of 2019) (Arabic: مديريات mudīriyyā). The districts are subdivided into 2,210 Uzaal (sub-districts), and then into 38,284 villages (as of 2001). The districts are listed below, by governorate:


Saada (Arabic: صَعْدَة, romanized: Ṣaʿdah) is one of the governorates of Yemen. The governorate's seat and the largest city is Saada. It is the epicentre of Zaydism and where the Houthi group originates from.: 1008 


Saada (Arabic: صَعْدَة, romanized: Ṣaʿdah) is one of the governorates of Yemen. The governorate's seat and the largest city is Saada. It is the epicentre of Zaydism and where the Houthi group originates from.: 1008 


Al Jawf (Arabic: الجوف Al-Jawf) is a governorate of Yemen. Its capital is Al Hazm.
As of April 2020, after the Houthi forces' 2020 offensive, nearly all the governorate is under Houthi control, except for Khabb wa ash Sha'af.On 15 July 2020, a Saudi Arabian airstrike in Al Hazm District in Al-Jawf Governorate killed seven Yemeni civilians. On 17 August 2020, a Houthi missile attack killed 11 government troops, including a senior officer.


Hajjah (Arabic: حجة, romanized: Ḥaǧǧa) is a governorate of Yemen. It borders the Red Sea to the west, and its capital is also named Hajjah.


Sanaa (Arabic: صَنْعَاء Ṣanʿāʾ), also spelled San'a' or Sana, is a governorate of Yemen. Its capital is Sanaa, which is also the national capital. However, the city of Sanaa is not part of the governorate but instead forms the separate governorate of Amanat Al-Asemah. The Governorate covers an area of 13,850 km2 (5,350 sq mi). As of 2004, the population was 2,918,379 inhabitants. Within this place is Jabal An-Nabi Shu'ayb or Jabal Hadhur, the highest mountain in the nation and the Arabian Peninsula.
Yemen is an Islamic society. Nearly all Yemenis are Muslims, with approximately 65% belonging to the Sunni Islam and approximately 35% belonging to the Zaydi Shia school of thought. Amongst the native population, there are approximately 1,000 Christians, and 6 remaining Jews.  However, Pew-Templeton estimates the number of Christians to be as high as 40,000, though most do not publicly identify as such, due to fears of religious persecution. According to WIN/Gallup International polls, Yemen has the most religious population among Arab countries and it is one of the most religious populations world-wide.


ʿAsir (Arabic: عَسِيْر, romanized: ʿAsīr, lit. 'difficult') is a Minṭaqah (Arabic: مِنْطَقَةُ, romanized: Province) in the southwest of Saudi Arabia, which is named after the ʿAsīr tribe. It has an area of 76,693 square kilometres (29,611 sq mi), and an estimated population of 2,211,875 (in 2017). 'Asir is surrounded by Mecca Province to the north and west, Al-Bahah Province to the northwest, Riyadh Province to the northeast, Najran Province to the southeast, and Jazan Province and the Yemeni Muhafazah (Governorate of Sa'dah to the south.
Abha is the provincial capital, and other towns include Khamis Mushait, Bisha and Bareq. The regional governor is Turki ibn Talal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. He replaced his cousin, Faisal bin Khalid bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, after being appointed on the 27th of December 2018.
ʿAsir (Arabic: عَسِيْر, romanized: ʿAsīr, lit. 'difficult') is a Minṭaqah (Arabic: مِنْطَقَةُ, romanized: Province) in the southwest of Saudi Arabia, which is named after the ʿAsīr tribe. It has an area of 76,693 square kilometres (29,611 sq mi), and an estimated population of 2,211,875 (in 2017). 'Asir is surrounded by Mecca Province to the north and west, Al-Bahah Province to the northwest, Riyadh Province to the northeast, Najran Province to the southeast, and Jazan Province and the Yemeni Muhafazah (Governorate of Sa'dah to the south.
Abha is the provincial capital, and other towns include Khamis Mushait, Bisha and Bareq. The regional governor is Turki ibn Talal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. He replaced his cousin, Faisal bin Khalid bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, after being appointed on the 27th of December 2018.
The Idrisid Emirate of Asir (Arabic: الإمارة الإدريسية) was a state located in the Arabian Peninsula. The Emirate was located in the geographical region of Asir and Jizan in what is now southwestern Saudi Arabia, and extending to Hodeidah, northwest of Yemen.


The Idrisid Emirate of Asir (Arabic: الإمارة الإدريسية) was a state located in the Arabian Peninsula. The Emirate was located in the geographical region of Asir and Jizan in what is now southwestern Saudi Arabia, and extending to Hodeidah, northwest of Yemen.


The Idrisid Emirate of Asir (Arabic: الإمارة الإدريسية) was a state located in the Arabian Peninsula. The Emirate was located in the geographical region of Asir and Jizan in what is now southwestern Saudi Arabia, and extending to Hodeidah, northwest of Yemen.


Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden (Arabic: محمد بن عوض بن لادن; 1908 – 3 September 1967) was a Yemeni-born Saudi billionaire businessman working primarily in the construction industry. He founded what is today the Saudi Binladin Group and became the wealthiest non-royal Saudi, establishing the wealth and prestige of the Bin Laden family. He was the son of Awad bin Laden and the father of Osama bin Laden.


Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden (Arabic: محمد بن عوض بن لادن; 1908 – 3 September 1967) was a Yemeni-born Saudi billionaire businessman working primarily in the construction industry. He founded what is today the Saudi Binladin Group and became the wealthiest non-royal Saudi, establishing the wealth and prestige of the Bin Laden family. He was the son of Awad bin Laden and the father of Osama bin Laden.


Rijal Almaa or Rijal Almaʽa (رجال ألمع) is a village located in the Rijal Almaa province, 'Asir Region, Saudi Arabia. It is about 50 km (31 mi) west of Abha, in the southwest of Saudi Arabia. The village is more than 900 years old. The village had an ideal location through which it linked the people coming from Yemen and the Levant through the Holy City of Makkah and Medina. As a result, it became a regional trade center.
Rijal Almaa contains around 60 multi-story buildings made of stone, clay and wood. The village has historical significance as it has a number of long and old fortresses. As the village is open for visitors, people can reach the place through a number of ways including Sawda center, Aqabat Sama, Muhayil Asir and Hobail.


On 28 March 2023, a bus carrying Umrah pilgrims crashed into a bridge in Asir province, southwest of Saudi Arabia, resulting in the death of at least 20 pilgrims and 29 others being injured. The victims were en route to Mecca to perform Umrah during the first week of Ramadan. The accident was caused by a brake failure, which caused the bus to overturn and catch fire. The Saudi civil defense and Red Crescent Authority teams immediately responded to the scene of the accident and cordoned off the area. The injured and deceased were transported to nearby hospitals. The victims were reported to be of different nationalities.


Khamis Mushayt or Khamis Mushait (Arabic: خميس مشيط, Ḫamīs Mušayṭ) is a city in south-west Saudi Arabia, located east of Abha, the provincial seat of the 'Asir Province, 1,300 kilometres (810 mi) 650 nautical miles from Dhahran and 884 kilometres (549 mi) from the national capital of Riyadh. It is the capital of the Shahran tribe in the Asir region.
It is fifth-largest city in Saudi Arabia after Riyadh, Jeddah, Mecca and Medina, with an estimated metro population of 1,353,000 as of 2017. Khamis Mushayt is noted for being the fourth largest trading centre in Saudi Arabia, and is famous for its world-class military airbase.
The Holodomor (Ukrainian: Голодомо́р, romanized: Holodomor, IPA: [ɦolodoˈmɔr]; derived from морити голодом, moryty holodom, 'to kill by starvation'), also known as the Terror-Famine or the Great Famine, was a man-made famine in Soviet Ukraine from 1932 to 1933 that killed millions of Ukrainians. The Holodomor was part of the wider Soviet famine of 1930–1933 which affected the major grain-producing areas of the Soviet Union.While scholars are in consensus that the cause of the famine was man-made, whether the Holodomor constitutes a genocide remains in dispute. Some historians conclude that the famine was planned and exacerbated by Joseph Stalin in order to eliminate a Ukrainian independence movement. Others suggest that the famine was primarily the consequence of rapid Soviet industrialisation and collectivization of agriculture.Ukraine was one of the largest grain-producing states in the USSR and was subject to unreasonably higher grain quotas, when compared to the rest of the USSR. This caused Ukraine to be hit particularly hard by the famine. Early estimates of the death toll by scholars and government officials vary greatly. A joint statement to the United Nations signed by 25 countries in 2003 declared that 7–10 million died. However, current scholarship estimates a range significantly lower, with 3.5 to 5 million victims. The famine's widespread impact on Ukraine persists to this day.Since 2006, the Holodomor has been recognized by the European Parliament, Ukraine, and 25 other countries, as a genocide against the Ukrainian people carried out by the Soviet government.


Kulak (; Russian: кула́к; plural: кулаки́, kulakí, 'fist' or 'tight-fisted'), also kurkul (Ukrainian: куркуль) or golchomag (Azerbaijani: qolçomaq, plural: qolçomaqlar), was the term which was used to describe peasants who owned over 8 acres (3.2 hectares) of land towards the end of the Russian Empire. In the early Soviet Union, particularly in Soviet Russia and Azerbaijan, kulak became a vague reference to property ownership among peasants who were considered hesitant allies of the Bolshevik Revolution. In Ukraine during 1930–1931, there also existed a term of pidkurkulnyk (almost wealthy peasant); these were considered "sub-kulaks".Kulak originally referred to former peasants in the Russian Empire who became wealthier during the Stolypin reform of 1906 to 1914, which aimed to reduce radicalism amongst the peasantry and produce profit-minded, politically conservative farmers. During the Russian Revolution, kulak was used to chastise peasants who withheld grain from the Bolsheviks. According to Marxist–Leninist political theories of the early 20th century, the kulaks were considered class enemies of the poorer peasants. Vladimir Lenin described them as "bloodsuckers, vampires, plunderers of the people and profiteers, who fatten themselves during famines", declaring revolution against them to liberate poor peasants, farm laborers, and proletariat (the much smaller class of urban and industrial workers).During the first five-year plan, Joseph Stalin's all-out campaign to take land ownership and organisation away from the peasantry meant that, according to historian Robert Conquest, "peasants with a couple of cows or five or six acres [~2 ha] more than their neighbors" were labeled kulaks. In 1929, Soviet officials officially classified kulaks according to subjective criteria, such as the use of hired labour. Under dekulakization, government officials seized farms and killed many kulaks, deported others to labor camps, and drove many others to migrate to the cities following the loss of their property to the collectives.
Ukraine (Ukrainian: Україна, romanized: Ukraïna, pronounced [ʊkrɐˈjinɐ] (listen)) is a country in Eastern Europe. It is the second-largest European country after Russia, which it borders to the east and northeast.  It is also bordered by Belarus to the north; by Poland, Slovakia, and Hungary to the west; and by Romania and Moldova to the southwest; with a coastline along the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov to the south and southeast. Kyiv is the nation's capital and largest city, followed by Dnipro, Kharkiv, and Odesa. Ukraine's official language is Ukrainian; Russian is also widely spoken, especially in the east and south.
During the Middle Ages, Ukraine was the site of early Slavic expansion and the area later became a key centre of East Slavic culture under the state of Kievan Rus', which emerged in the 9th century. The state eventually disintegrated into rival regional powers and was ultimately destroyed by the Mongol invasions of the 13th century. The area was then contested, divided, and ruled by a variety of external powers for the next 600 years, including the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, the Austrian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the Tsardom of Russia. The Cossack Hetmanate emerged in central Ukraine in the 17th century, but was partitioned between Russia and Poland, and ultimately absorbed by the Russian Empire. Ukrainian nationalism developed, and following the Russian Revolution in 1917, the short-lived Ukrainian People's Republic was formed. The Bolsheviks consolidated control over much of the former empire and established the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, which became a constituent republic of the Soviet Union when it was formed in 1922. In the early 1930s, millions of Ukrainians died in the Holodomor, a human-made famine. The German occupation during World War II in Ukraine was devastating, and seven million Ukrainian civilians were killed, including the majority of Ukrainian Jews.
Ukraine gained independence in 1991 as the Soviet Union dissolved, and declared itself neutral. A new constitution was adopted in 1996. A series of mass demonstrations, known as the Euromaidan, led to the establishment of a new government in 2014 after a revolution. Russia then unilaterally annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula; and pro-Russian unrest culminated in a war in the Donbas between Russian-backed separatists and government forces in eastern Ukraine. Since the outbreak of war with Russia, Ukraine has continued to seek closer ties with the United States, European Union, and NATO. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
Ukraine is a unitary state with a semi-presidential system. A developing country, it is the poorest country in Europe by nominal GDP per capita and corruption remains a significant issue. However, due to its extensive fertile land, pre-war Ukraine was one of the largest grain exporters in the world. It is a founding member of the United Nations, as well as a member of the Council of Europe, the World Trade Organization, and the OSCE. It is in the process of joining the European Union and has submitted an application for NATO membership.


Holodomor denial (Ukrainian: заперечення Голодомору, romanized: zaperechennia Holodomoru) is the claim that the Holodomor, a 1932–33 man-made famine that killed millions in Soviet Ukraine, did not occur, or (especially since evidence of its existence became public in the 1980s) the diminishment of its scale and significance, including the claim that it was not a genocide.Officially, the government of the Soviet Union denied the occurrence of the famine and it also suppressed information about the famine from the very beginning of it until the 1980s. The Soviet government's denial of the occurrence of the famine was also circulated by some Western journalists and intellectuals. It was echoed at the time of the famine by some prominent Western journalists, including The New York Times' Walter Duranty.
Holodomor denial is a form of historical negationism – falsification or distortion of the historical record about crimes against humanity – and as such it is subject to legal punishment in many countries.


Family (from Latin: familia) is a group of people related either by consanguinity (by recognized birth) or affinity (by marriage or other relationship). It forms the basis for social order. The purpose of the family is to maintain the well-being of its members and of society. Ideally, families offer predictability, structure, and safety as members mature and learn to participate in the community. Historically, most human societies use family as the primary locus of attachment, nurturance, and socialization.Anthropologists classify most family organizations as matrifocal (a mother and her children), patrifocal (a father and his children), conjugal (a married couple with children, also called the nuclear family), avuncular (a man, his sister, and her children), or extended (in addition to parents and children, may include grandparents, aunts, uncles, or cousins).
The field of genealogy aims to trace family lineages through history. The family is also an important economic unit studied in family economics. The word "families" can be used metaphorically to create more inclusive categories such as community, nationhood, and global village.
James E. Mace (February 18, 1952 – May 3, 2004) was an American historian, professor, and researcher of the Holodomor.


The Harvest of Sorrow: Soviet Collectivization and the Terror-Famine is a 1986 book by British historian Robert Conquest published by the Oxford University Press. It was written with the assistance of historian James Mace, a junior fellow at the Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute, who started doing research for the book following the advice of the director of the institute. Conquest wrote the book in order "to register in the public consciousness of the West a knowledge of and feeling for major events, involving millions of people and millions of deaths, which took place within living memory.": 149 The book deals with the collectivization of agriculture in 1929–1931 in Ukraine and elsewhere in the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin's direction, and the Soviet famine of 1932–1933 and Holodomor which resulted. Millions of peasants died due to starvation, deportation to labor camps and execution. Conquest's thesis was characterized as "the famine was deliberately inflicted for ethnic reasons—it was done in order to undermine the Ukrainian nation", or that it constituted genocide.: 70 : 507 The Harvest of Sorrow won Conquest the Antonovych prize in 1987 and the Shevchenko National Prize in 1994.
Genocide recognition politics are efforts to have a certain event (re)interpreted as a "genocide" or officially designated as such. Such efforts may occur regardless of whether the event meets the definition of genocide laid out in the 1948 Genocide Convention.


Soviet and communist studies, or Soviet studies is the field of historical studies of the Soviet Union and other Communist states as well as historical studies of the Communist parties that existed or still exist in some form in many countries, both inside and outside the former Eastern Bloc, such as the Communist Party USA. Aspects of its historiography have attracted debates between historians on topics including totalitarianism and Cold War espionage.Soviet and Eastern European studies was also a form of area studies that included the study of various aspects of Soviet society, including agriculture, trade relations in the Warsaw Pact, nationality policy, Kremlinology, human rights, empire, and collectivization. The wider field included independent study in universities and academia, as well as some support from military and intelligence. Major contemporary journals included Soviet Studies (now Europe-Asia Studies), Communisme, and The Russian Review, among others. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the field focused on historical studies and began to include comparisons to the post-Soviet years as well as new data from the Soviet archives.


Stéphane Courtois (born 25 November 1947) is a French historian and university professor, a director of research at the French National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), professor at the Catholic Institute of Higher Studies (ICES) in La Roche-sur-Yon, and director of a collection specialized in the history of communist movements and communist states.
The Black Book of Communism, a book edited by Courtois, has been translated into numerous languages, sold millions of copies, and is considered one of the most influential and controversial books written about the history of communism in the 20th century and state socialist regimes. In the first chapter of the book, Courtois argued that Communism and Nazism are similar totalitarian systems and that Communism was responsible for the murder of around 100 million people in the 20th century. Courtois' attempt to equate the two has been effective but controversial, as well as revisionist, and it remains on the fringes in academia, on both scientific and moral grounds.Courtois is a research director at the French National Centre for Scientific Research, in the Géode (group of study and observation of democracy) at Paris West University Nanterre La Défense as well as a professor at the Catholic Institute of Higher Studies – ICES. He is editor of the journal Communisme, which he cofounded with Annie Kriegel in 1982, and part of the Cercle de l'Oratoire think tank.
As a student, from 1968 to 1971, Courtois was a Maoist, but he later became a strong supporter of democracy, pluralism, human rights, and the rule of law.
Ostankino Tower (Russian: Останкинская телебашня, romanized: Ostankinskaya telebashnya) is a television and radio tower in Moscow, Russia, owned by the Moscow branch of unitary enterprise Russian TV and Radio Broadcasting Network. Standing 540.1 metres (1,772 ft), it was designed by Nikolai Nikitin, Pyotr Gorchakov and Yuri Kondratyuk. As of 2022, it is the tallest free-standing structure in Europe and 12th tallest in the world. Between 1967 and 1974, it was the tallest in the world. The tower was the first free-standing structure to exceed 500 m (1,600 ft) in height. Ostankino was built to mark the 50th anniversary of the October Revolution. It is named after the surrounding Ostankino district of Moscow.
Channel One (Russian: Первый канал, tr. Pervý kanal, IPA: [ˈpʲervɨj kɐˈnal], lit. 'First Channel') is a Russian state-controlled television channel. It is the first television channel to broadcast in the Russian Federation. Its headquarters are located at Ostankino Technical Center near the Ostankino Tower in Moscow.
From April 1995 to September 2002, the channel was known as Public Russian Television (Russian: Общественное Российское Телевидение, tr. Obshchestvennoye Rossiyskoye Televideniye, ORT [oˈɛrˈtɛ]).Channel One's main competitors are the Russia-1 and NTV channels. The channel has 2,443 employees as of 2015.


ATV (Author Television) is the oldest Russian private TV company. It was founded in the USSR on September 15, 1988 by Anatoly Malkin and Kira Proshutinskaya. It reached its height in popularity in Russia in the 1990s.The television company was founded on September 15, 1988 with the support of the cooperative of the architect Yuri Makarov (a story about him was previously filmed in the program "Peace and Youth", where Kira Proshutinskaya worked). The name ATV was coined by Anatoly Malkin. He deciphered the name as "alternative television", but Malkin's friend and colleague Vladimir Voroshilov suggested the "author's television" option, since in his opinion, the "alternative" decoding was inappropriate.
For the first three years, ATV produced projects within the framework of the Main Edition of Programs for Youth, from which Malkin and Proshutinskaya came out. The first program of the TV company was the "Press Club" talk show, which aired in September 1989. The first documentary film  "Circle", which told the story of the Komsomol. Also in 1988-1990 ATV made stories for the program "Vzglyad".
In the period from 1990 to 1992, the first program of the Central Television (later on the 1st channel Ostankino) on Monday evenings aired the channel "Author's Television", which was a block of programs of ATV's own production. From November 1991 to 1996, the company was the founder and partner of the creative association "New Studio" of the RGTRK "Ostankino". In addition, the studio produced a weekly TV block called "New Studio Presents" for Channel One Ostankino. In September 1992, ATV became the main contractor for Channel 4 Ostankino, which was placed under the authority of New Studio. From 1994 to 1995, together with the television companies VID and REN-TV, it was a member of the Association of Independent Television Producers, which became the founder of ORT. 
The television company has repeatedly tried to create its own channel in the late 1990s and early 2000s, it often took part in television competitions for frequencies. In 2000, ATV applied for broadcasting for 3 TVKs in Moscow together with VID TV company. But neither VID nor ATV passed, and the place was given to the operating company TVC. In 2004 the company, together with ZAO Stream-TV, created the Retro-TV channel, one of the owners of which it remained until 2007. In 2000, during a fire at the Ostankino TV tower, the ORT channel was broadcast on ATV.
In 2004-2005, ATV was also engaged in the release of audiobooks. 
In 2007, the Quadriga Capital private equity fund bought out a controlling stake from the founders of the studio (Kira Proshutinskaya and Anatoly Malkin) for an estimated $25 million.
In 2008, ATV received a license for satellite broadcasting and together with ZAO AKADO Stolitsa, created the PRO Money TV channel.
From 2009 to 2012 on the basis of "ATV" the television production company "Proma Production", produced programs such as "What to do?", "Surname" ("Big family"), "Earlier than all", "Salt ", "Tea Party ", "Natural Science. Lectures and Experiments ", "Theatrical Fa-Sol ", "Wife", "Fa-Sol. Workshop ”, “Homework Rescue Service”. After the divorce of the founder Kira Proshutinskaya from Anatoly Malkin, the TV company was closed. ATV simultaneously with Proshutinskaya leaves a number of employees. From 2012 to 2014, the TV company's products were produced under the name MAG-TV (based on the first letters of the surname, name and patronymic of the founder of the TV company). 
Since September 2016, ATV projects have been published under the copyright "IP Malkin Anatoly Grigorievich", since October 2018  "IP Lezhanskaya Kristina Yuryevna", and since September 2020 - as LLC "Novoe ATV".


MTV Russia or MTV Россия (Russian: МТВ Россия) was a Russian music and entertainment TV channel, which carried out its broadcasting from September 25, 1998 to May 31, 2013. On October 1, 2013, MTV Russia was relaunched as a satellite pay TV channel.
In March 2022, Paramount Global announced that it intends to pause Russian operations. It did not comment on when the company plans return to the territory in the future.


NTV (Cyrillic: НТВ) is a Russian free-to-air television channel that was launched as a subsidiary of Vladimir Gusinsky's company Media-Most.  Since 14 April 2001 Gazprom Media controls the network. NTV has no official meaning according to Igor Malashenko, the author of the name and co-founder of the company, but in the 1990s unofficial transcripts of the acronym include "New" (Novoje), "Independent" (Nezavisimoje), "Non-governmental" (Negosudarstvennoje), "Our" (Nashe).
Elena Alexandrovna Letuchaya (Russian: Елена Александровна Летучая; is a Russian journalist, television presenter, producer and director. Host of Revizorro on the channel Friday!. She is the author of documentaries for TV channels TV3, STS and Friday!. She is the author and presenter of ART Life and Territory of men on the channel, Global Star TV. She graduated from School of broadcasting "MITRO", where she currently heads the "Workshop of Elena Letuchaya".
In 2015, she was among the sexiest women of Russia according to the magazine "Maxim", taking 91st place.


2x2 (Russian: Дважды два, romanized: Dvazhdy dva, lit. 'Twice Two') is a Russian television channel. Founded in 1989, it was the first commercial TV station in the Soviet Union (USSR). The channel shut down in 1997, and resumed broadcasting in 2003. Since then, the channel has predominantly broadcast foreign animated TV series, including children's television series, anime and adult animation shows (similar to the American channel Adult Swim).
The channel has 4-hour versions for broadcasting in other regions of Russia (+0 MSK, +2 MSK, +4 MSK, +7 MSK).
The channel began trial broadcasting in July 1989 on the frequency of Moscow Programme of the Central Television, becoming the first commercial channel in the history of the USSR and Russia. Full broadcasting began on 1 November 1989. The network's programming was initially composed of half-hour and more advertising blocks, modern Soviet and Western music videos, cartoons, and TV series. 
Broadcasting of 2x2 on Channel 3 ended on 9 June 1997, moving to the decimeter band, on Channel 51, where it broadcast with extremely low-quality content and had a much greater focus on home shopping. In 2003, the channel shifted to 60 TVK.Since 1 April 2007, under this name, an animated Russian channel has been broadcasting, aimed at an adult audience 14–44 years old. Its database contains more than 200 titles of various animated series, game shows and feature films. The channel also has its own animation studio.
Since 2014, the channel has been part of the holding company Gazprom-Media. As of April 2017, it employs 45 people. The channel applied for inclusion in the second multiplex of digital terrestrial television in Russia, but failed to win the competition held by the Federal Competition Commission (FCC).


The All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (Russian: Всероссийская государственная телевизионная и радиовещательная компания, romanized: Vserossiyskaya gosudarstvennaya televizionnaya i radioveshchatelnaya kompaniya; VGTRK, Russian: ВГТРК) or Russian Television and Radio Broadcasting Company, also known as Russian Television and Radio (Russian: Россия. Телевидение и радио, tr. Rossiya. Televideniye i radio), is a national state-owned broadcaster which operates many television and radio channels in 53 of Russia's languages. The company was founded in 1990 and is based in Moscow.The broadcasting of the All-Russia TV and radio channels is located in Moscow, and also via the regional transmitting centres of the Russian Television and Radio Broadcasting Network forming the terrestrial transmitting network. TV and radio channels from Moscow are delivered to the regions via satellite and terrestrial communication channels.
During the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the broadcaster has been accused of spreading propaganda and disinformation, while also inciting discord and hate. Unlike RT, it was mostly produced for internal consumption. In 2017, one of its channels, RTR Planeta, was banned in Lithuania.
In September and October 1993, a constitutional crisis arose in the Russian Federation from a conflict between President Boris Yeltsin and Russia's parliament. President Yeltsin performed a self-coup, dissolving parliament and instituting a presidential rule by decree system. The crisis ended with Yeltsin using military force to attack Moscow's House of Soviets and arrest the lawmakers. In Russia, the events are known as the October Coup (Russian: Октябрьский путч, romanized: Oktyabr'skiy putch) or Black October (Russian: Чëрный октябрь, romanized: Chyorniy Oktyabr').
Yeltsin had assumed the presidency of the Russian Federation following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. However, the Soviet-era 1978 Russian constitution remained in effect. Yeltsin began assuming increasing powers, leading to a political standoff with Russia's parliament, which in 1993 was composed of the Congress of People's Deputies and the Supreme Soviet. Confident in popular support for his restructuring policies after an April referendum, Yeltsin called for early parliamentary elections and on 21 September dissolved the legislature in a move not authorized by the constitution.
On 23 September, the parliament (led by Supreme Soviet Chairman Ruslan Khasbulatov) impeached Yeltsin, proclaimed vice president Alexander Rutskoy the acting president, and barricaded itself in the White House building. Ten days of street fighting commenced between police and demonstrators loyal to Yeltsin and the parliamentarians. On 3 October, demonstrators removed militia cordons around the parliament and, urged by their leaders, took over the mayor's offices and tried to storm the Ostankino television centre. The army, which had remained neutral, shelled and stormed the White House on 4 October on Yeltsin's orders, and arrested the surviving leaders of the resistance. All of those involved in the events were later granted amnesty by the State Duma in February 1994 and released from jail.
At the climax of the crisis, Russia was thought by some to be "on the brink" of civil war. The 10-day conflict became the deadliest single event of street fighting in Moscow's history since the October Revolution; 147 people were killed and 437 wounded according to the official Russian government statistics. In the wake of the events, Yeltsin consolidated his position, further expanded the powers of the executive, and pushed through the adoption of the 1993 constitution of the Russian Federation.
The Central Television of the USSR (Russian: Центральное телевидение СССР, romanized: Tsentral'noye televideniye SSSR; abbr. CT USSR [Russian: ЦТ СССР, romanized: TsT SSSR]) was the state television broadcaster of the Soviet Union.
Like much of the Soviet media, CT USSR regularly promoted the agendas of the Communist Party. Initially, the service was operated, together with the national radio service, by the Ministry of Culture. Later it was operated by the Gosteleradio committee, under the Communications Ministry and the Information and Press Ministry, and later a Council of Ministers-controlled network of television and radio broadcasting.


On December 24, 2018, a helicopter carrying Martha Érika Alonso Hidalgo, the newly elected Governor of the Mexican state of Puebla, and her husband, Senator and former Governor Rafael Moreno Valle Rosas, crashed on a hill in Coronango near the city of Puebla. Five people on board the helicopter were killed in the crash: Alonso, Moreno, the two pilots, Captain Roberto Coppe Obregón and Captain Marco Antonio Tavera Romero, and an assistant to the senator. Alonso was 10 days into her term as governor. The accident investigation found a preexisting problem with a stability system on the helicopter.


The AgustaWestland AW109, originally the Agusta A109, is a lightweight, twin-engine, eight-seat multi-purpose helicopter designed and initially produced by the Italian rotorcraft manufacturer Agusta. It was the first all-Italian helicopter to be mass-produced. Its production has been continued by Agusta's successor companies, presently Leonardo S.p.A. (formerly AgustaWestland, merged into the new Finmeccanica since 2016).Development of the A109 commenced during the late 1960s as an indigenous rotorcraft suited to commercial operations. A twin-engine arrangement was pursued in response to market interest, while work on the civil model was prioritised over the military-orientated A109B project. On 4 August 1971, the first of three prototypes made its maiden flight. On 1 June 1975, the type received certification from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), permitting its service entry in 1976. The A109 has been used in a wide variety of roles, including light utility, VIP transport, aeromedical, law enforcement, search and rescue (SAR), and several military roles. Dedicated military models have been produced for both land and sea operations. Several models with alternative engines, expanded fuselages, and alternative equipment fitouts have been produced. Some AW109s feature a convertible interior to quickly adapt the rotorcraft between roles. Various third party companies also offer adaptions and services for the type.
Following the merger of Agusta and the British company Westland Helicopters to form AgustaWestland, the A109 has been rebranded as the AW109. International involvement in the programme has also been pursued; the company has established final assembly lines at sites in both Italy and the US. Furthermore, hundreds of AW109 fuselages have been manufactured by the Polish aerospace company PZL-Świdnik since the mid-1990s. AgustaWestland formed a joint venture with the Changhe Aircraft Industries Corporation in 2004 that produces and supports the AW109, includes a final assembly line, in China. The AW109 has been in continuous production for 40 years. The AgustaWestland AW119 is a derivative of the AW109, the principal difference being that it is powered by a single engine and has a fixed undercarriage.
Jesús Rodríguez Almeida (born 24 November 1971) is a Mexican politician. He served as Interim Governor of Puebla from 24 December 2018 to 21 January 2019. He became interim governor when Martha Erika Alonso Hidalgo died in the 2018 Puebla helicopter crash. On 21 January 2019 the Congress of Puebla elected Guillermo Pacheco Pulido as the new Acting Governor of Puebla.


Martha Érika Alonso Hidalgo (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈmaɾta ˈeɾika aˈlonsojˈðalɣo]; 17 December 1973 – 24 December 2018; also called Martha Érika Alonso de Moreno Valle) was a Mexican politician of the National Action Party (PAN) who served as the first female governor of Puebla from 14 December 2018 until her death ten days later in a helicopter crash. She was the spouse of Rafael Moreno Valle Rosas, who was governor of Puebla from 2011 to 2017 and was also killed in the crash.


The United States federal government shut down from midnight EST on December 22, 2018, until January 25, 2019 (35 days) was the longest government shutdown in history and the second and final federal government shutdown involving furloughs during the presidency of Donald Trump. It occurred when the 116th Congress and President Trump could not agree on an appropriations bill to fund the operations of the federal government for the 2019 fiscal year, or a temporary continuing resolution that would extend the deadline for passing a bill. The Antideficiency Act prohibits federal departments or agencies from conducting non-essential operations without appropriations legislation in place. As a result, nine executive departments with around 800,000 employees had to shut down partially or in full, affecting about one-fourth of government activities and causing employees to be furloughed or required to work without being paid. The Congressional Budget Office estimated the shutdown cost to the American economy to be at least $11 billion USD, excluding indirect costs that were difficult to quantify.The shutdown stemmed from an impasse over Trump's demand for $5.7 billion in federal funds for a U.S.–Mexico border wall. In December 2018, the Senate unanimously passed an appropriations bill without wall funding, and the bill appeared likely to be approved by the Republican-controlled House of Representatives and Trump. After Trump faced heavy criticism from some  right-wing media outlets and pundits for appearing to back down on his campaign promise to "build the wall", he announced that he would not sign any appropriations bill that did not fund its construction. As a result, the House passed a stopgap bill with funding for the wall, but it was blocked in the Senate by the threat of a Democratic filibuster.In January 2019, representatives elected in the November 2018 election took office, giving the Democrats a majority in the House. The House immediately voted to approve the appropriations bill that had previously passed the Senate unanimously (which included no funding for the wall). For several weeks, Trump continued to maintain that he would veto any bill that did not fund an entire border wall, and Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell blocked the Senate from considering any appropriations legislation that Trump would not support, including the bill that had previously passed. Democrats and some Republicans opposed the shutdown and passed multiple bills to reopen the government, arguing that the government shutdown amounted to "hostage-taking" civil servants and that negotiations could only begin once the government was reopened.On January 25, 2019, Trump agreed to endorse a stopgap bill to reopen the government for three weeks up until February 15 to allow for negotiations to take place to approve an appropriations bill that both parties could agree on. However, Trump reiterated his demand for the border wall funding and said that he would shut down the government again or declare a national emergency and use military funding to build the wall if Congress did not appropriate the funds by February 15.Trump's approval rating decreased during the shutdown. A majority of Americans opposed exploitation of the shutdown as a negotiating strategy and held Trump responsible for the shutdown: A CBS News poll found that 71% of Americans considered the border wall "not worth the shutdown" and a Washington Post/ABC News poll found that 53% of Americans blamed Trump and Republicans for the shutdown, compared to 34% who blamed Democrats and 10% who blamed both parties.On February 15, 2019, Trump declared a national emergency in order to fund the wall and bypass Congress, after being unsatisfied with a bipartisan border bill that had passed the House and the Senate a day before.
On December 24, 2018, just ten days into her term as Governor of Puebla, Martha Erika Alonso Hidalgo and her husband, Senator Rafael Moreno Valle Rosas, died in a helicopter crash while en route from Puebla to Mexico City. The death of the Governor required the calling of a special gubernatorial election for 2 June 2019. This election was made simultaneous with special elections from five municipalities in the state whose initial 2018 elections had been nullified.


Rafael Moreno Valle Rosas (30 June 1968 – 24 December 2018) was a Mexican politician affiliated with the National Action Party (PAN). He was the governor of Puebla from February 2011 through January 2017.Moreno Valle also served as a deputy of the LIX Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing Puebla and as a senator in the LX, LXI and LXIV Legislatures.Moreno Valle was the grandson of Rafael Moreno Valle, a doctor and politician who also served as the governor of Puebla from 1969 to 1972. He was also the spouse of Martha Erika Alonso Hidalgo, the first woman governor of Puebla.


The LXIV Legislature of the Mexican Congress was the meeting of the Mexican Congress of the Union that convened on 1 September 2018 and ended on 31 August 2021. It is composed of the 500 federal deputies and 128 senators elected in the 2018 Mexican general election. While the deputies served only in the LXIV Legislature, the senators, elected to six-year terms, also formed the Senate in the LXV Legislature, which convened in 2021.
This article lists events occurring in Mexico during 2020. 2020 is the "Year of Leona Vicario, Benemérita (Praiseworthy) Mother of the Fatherland". The article also lists the most important political leaders during the year at both federal and state levels and will include a brief year-end summary of major social and economic issues.
The following is a list of notable deaths in December 2018.
Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:

Name, age, country of citizenship at birth, subsequent country of citizenship (if applicable), reason for notability, cause of death (if known), and reference.


2 (two) is a number, numeral and digit. It is the natural number following 1 and preceding 3. It is the smallest and only even prime number. Because it forms the basis of a duality, it has religious and spiritual significance in many cultures.
Under the Whyte notation for the classification of steam locomotives, 2-2-2 represents the wheel arrangement of two leading wheels on one axle, two powered driving wheels on one axle, and two trailing wheels on one axle. The wheel arrangement both provided more stability and enabled a larger firebox than the earlier 0-2-2 and 2-2-0 types. This configuration was introduced in 1834 on Robert Stephenson's 'Patentee locomotive' but it was later popularly named Jenny Lind, after the Jenny Lind locomotive which in turn was named after the popular singer. They were also sometimes described as Singles, although this name could be used to describe any kind of locomotive with a single pair of driving wheels.
Under the Whyte notation for the classification of steam locomotives, 2-2-2 represents the wheel arrangement of two leading wheels on one axle, two powered driving wheels on one axle, and two trailing wheels on one axle. The wheel arrangement both provided more stability and enabled a larger firebox than the earlier 0-2-2 and 2-2-0 types. This configuration was introduced in 1834 on Robert Stephenson's 'Patentee locomotive' but it was later popularly named Jenny Lind, after the Jenny Lind locomotive which in turn was named after the popular singer. They were also sometimes described as Singles, although this name could be used to describe any kind of locomotive with a single pair of driving wheels.
[2.2.2]Cryptand is the organic compound with the formula N(CH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH2CH2)3N. This bicyclic molecule is the most studied member of the cryptand family of chelating agents. It is a white solid.  Many analogous compounds are known.  Their high affinity for alkali metal cations illustrates the advantages of "preorganization", a concept within the area of supramolecular chemistry.  
For the design and synthesis of [2.2.2]cryptand, Jean-Marie Lehn shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The compound was originally prepared starting with the diacylation of the diamine-diether:
[CH2OCH2CH2NH2]2  +  [CH2OCH2COCl]2  →   [CH2OCH2CH2NHC(O)CH2]2  +  2 HClThe resulting macrocyclic diamide is reduced by lithium aluminium hydride. The resulting macrocyclic diamine tetraether reacts with a second equivalent of [CH2OCH2COCl]2 to produce the macrobicyclic diamide.  This di(tertiary)amide is reduced to the diamine by diborane.
[2.2.2]Cryptand binds K+ as an octadentate N2O6 ligand.  The resulting cation K([2.2.2]cryptand)+ is lipophilic.


[2.2.2]Cryptand is the organic compound with the formula N(CH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH2CH2)3N. This bicyclic molecule is the most studied member of the cryptand family of chelating agents. It is a white solid.  Many analogous compounds are known.  Their high affinity for alkali metal cations illustrates the advantages of "preorganization", a concept within the area of supramolecular chemistry.  
For the design and synthesis of [2.2.2]cryptand, Jean-Marie Lehn shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The compound was originally prepared starting with the diacylation of the diamine-diether:
[CH2OCH2CH2NH2]2  +  [CH2OCH2COCl]2  →   [CH2OCH2CH2NHC(O)CH2]2  +  2 HClThe resulting macrocyclic diamide is reduced by lithium aluminium hydride. The resulting macrocyclic diamine tetraether reacts with a second equivalent of [CH2OCH2COCl]2 to produce the macrobicyclic diamide.  This di(tertiary)amide is reduced to the diamine by diborane.
[2.2.2]Cryptand binds K+ as an octadentate N2O6 ligand.  The resulting cation K([2.2.2]cryptand)+ is lipophilic.


[2.2.2]Cryptand is the organic compound with the formula N(CH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH2CH2)3N. This bicyclic molecule is the most studied member of the cryptand family of chelating agents. It is a white solid.  Many analogous compounds are known.  Their high affinity for alkali metal cations illustrates the advantages of "preorganization", a concept within the area of supramolecular chemistry.  
For the design and synthesis of [2.2.2]cryptand, Jean-Marie Lehn shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The compound was originally prepared starting with the diacylation of the diamine-diether:
[CH2OCH2CH2NH2]2  +  [CH2OCH2COCl]2  →   [CH2OCH2CH2NHC(O)CH2]2  +  2 HClThe resulting macrocyclic diamide is reduced by lithium aluminium hydride. The resulting macrocyclic diamine tetraether reacts with a second equivalent of [CH2OCH2COCl]2 to produce the macrobicyclic diamide.  This di(tertiary)amide is reduced to the diamine by diborane.
[2.2.2]Cryptand binds K+ as an octadentate N2O6 ligand.  The resulting cation K([2.2.2]cryptand)+ is lipophilic.


[2.2.2]Cryptand is the organic compound with the formula N(CH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH2CH2)3N. This bicyclic molecule is the most studied member of the cryptand family of chelating agents. It is a white solid.  Many analogous compounds are known.  Their high affinity for alkali metal cations illustrates the advantages of "preorganization", a concept within the area of supramolecular chemistry.  
For the design and synthesis of [2.2.2]cryptand, Jean-Marie Lehn shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The compound was originally prepared starting with the diacylation of the diamine-diether:
[CH2OCH2CH2NH2]2  +  [CH2OCH2COCl]2  →   [CH2OCH2CH2NHC(O)CH2]2  +  2 HClThe resulting macrocyclic diamide is reduced by lithium aluminium hydride. The resulting macrocyclic diamine tetraether reacts with a second equivalent of [CH2OCH2COCl]2 to produce the macrobicyclic diamide.  This di(tertiary)amide is reduced to the diamine by diborane.
[2.2.2]Cryptand binds K+ as an octadentate N2O6 ligand.  The resulting cation K([2.2.2]cryptand)+ is lipophilic.


The Pontiac 2+2 is a full size automobile that was manufactured by Pontiac, built on the B-body chassis. It debuted for the 1964 model year as a trim-only option for the Pontiac Catalina, with special door panels, bucket seats with a center console, and exterior badging. Pontiac marketed the 2+2 as the "big brother" to the popular Pontiac GTO.Beginning in 1965 the name Catalina was no longer found on the car, although it was still an option on the Catalina. The 2+2 was equipped with a 421 cu in (6.9 L) V8 engine, dual exhaust, heavy-duty front springs as well as unique exterior body trim. It continued on the same platform, but became a separate Pontiac series for the 1966 model year.  The 2+2 reverted to an option on the Catalina for 1967 and was discontinued in the United States the same year due to poor sales. 
It continued as a series in Canada until 1970. All Canadian-built 2+2's were equipped with a Pontiac body on a Chevrolet chassis, with the full range of Chevrolet engines available from inline 6-cylinder to big-block V8.
The name 2+2 reappeared briefly in 1986 on the Pontiac Grand Prix 2+2 G-body "aerobody" coupe, of which 1,225 were built.


The Pontiac 2+2 is a full size automobile that was manufactured by Pontiac, built on the B-body chassis. It debuted for the 1964 model year as a trim-only option for the Pontiac Catalina, with special door panels, bucket seats with a center console, and exterior badging. Pontiac marketed the 2+2 as the "big brother" to the popular Pontiac GTO.Beginning in 1965 the name Catalina was no longer found on the car, although it was still an option on the Catalina. The 2+2 was equipped with a 421 cu in (6.9 L) V8 engine, dual exhaust, heavy-duty front springs as well as unique exterior body trim. It continued on the same platform, but became a separate Pontiac series for the 1966 model year.  The 2+2 reverted to an option on the Catalina for 1967 and was discontinued in the United States the same year due to poor sales. 
It continued as a series in Canada until 1970. All Canadian-built 2+2's were equipped with a Pontiac body on a Chevrolet chassis, with the full range of Chevrolet engines available from inline 6-cylinder to big-block V8.
The name 2+2 reappeared briefly in 1986 on the Pontiac Grand Prix 2+2 G-body "aerobody" coupe, of which 1,225 were built.


The Pontiac 2+2 is a full size automobile that was manufactured by Pontiac, built on the B-body chassis. It debuted for the 1964 model year as a trim-only option for the Pontiac Catalina, with special door panels, bucket seats with a center console, and exterior badging. Pontiac marketed the 2+2 as the "big brother" to the popular Pontiac GTO.Beginning in 1965 the name Catalina was no longer found on the car, although it was still an option on the Catalina. The 2+2 was equipped with a 421 cu in (6.9 L) V8 engine, dual exhaust, heavy-duty front springs as well as unique exterior body trim. It continued on the same platform, but became a separate Pontiac series for the 1966 model year.  The 2+2 reverted to an option on the Catalina for 1967 and was discontinued in the United States the same year due to poor sales. 
It continued as a series in Canada until 1970. All Canadian-built 2+2's were equipped with a Pontiac body on a Chevrolet chassis, with the full range of Chevrolet engines available from inline 6-cylinder to big-block V8.
The name 2+2 reappeared briefly in 1986 on the Pontiac Grand Prix 2+2 G-body "aerobody" coupe, of which 1,225 were built.


Natascha Maria Kampusch (born 17 February 1988) is an Austrian author and former talk show host. At the age of 10, on 2 March 1998, she was abducted and held in a secret cellar by her kidnapper Wolfgang Přiklopil for more than eight years, until she escaped on 23 August 2006. Upon her escape, Přiklopil killed himself by stepping in front of a train at a nearby station. She has written a book about her ordeal, 3,096 Days (2010), which was later adapted into a film released in 2013.


The Hundred Days Offensive (8 August to 11 November 1918) was a series of massive Allied offensives that ended the First World War. Beginning with the Battle of Amiens (8–12 August) on the Western Front, the Allies pushed the Imperial German Army back, undoing its gains from the German spring offensive.
The Germans retreated to the Hindenburg Line, but the Allies broke through the line with a series of victories, starting with the Battle of St Quentin Canal on 29 September. The offensive, together with a revolution breaking out in Germany, led to the Armistice of 11 November 1918 which ended the war with an Allied victory. The term "Hundred Days Offensive" does not refer to a battle or strategy, but rather the rapid series of Allied victories.


Manali is a town, near Kullu town in Kullu district in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It is situated in the northern end of the Kullu Valley, formed by the Beas River. The town is located in the Kullu district, approximately 270 kilometres (170 mi) north of the state capital of Shimla and 544 kilometres (338 mi) northeast of the national capital of New Delhi. With a population of 8,096 people recorded in the 2011 Indian census Manali is the beginning of an ancient trade route through Lahaul (H.P) and Ladakh, over the Karakoram Pass and onto Yarkand and Hotan in the Tarim Basin of China. Manali is a popular tourist destination in India and serves as the gateway to the Lahaul and Spiti district as well as the city of Leh in Ladakh.


Wonder is a 2017 American drama film directed by Stephen Chbosky, who co-wrote the screenplay with Steven Conrad and Jack Thorne. It is based on the 2012 novel of the same name by R. J. Palacio and stars Julia Roberts, Owen Wilson, Jacob Tremblay, Noah Jupe, Izabela Vidovic, Bryce Gheisar, and Daveed Diggs.
The film, which follows a boy named August Pullman with Treacher Collins syndrome trying to fit in, was released in the United States on November 17, 2017, by Lionsgate. It received positive reviews from critics and audiences, with many praising Tremblay and Roberts' performances, Chbosky's direction, writing, musical score and faithfulness to Palacio's novel; the film was a box office success, grossing $306 million worldwide on a $20 million budget. At the 90th Academy Awards, the film was nominated for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. A spin-off sequel film, White Bird, will release in August 2023, with Gheisar reprising his role.


Wonder is a 2017 American drama film directed by Stephen Chbosky, who co-wrote the screenplay with Steven Conrad and Jack Thorne. It is based on the 2012 novel of the same name by R. J. Palacio and stars Julia Roberts, Owen Wilson, Jacob Tremblay, Noah Jupe, Izabela Vidovic, Bryce Gheisar, and Daveed Diggs.
The film, which follows a boy named August Pullman with Treacher Collins syndrome trying to fit in, was released in the United States on November 17, 2017, by Lionsgate. It received positive reviews from critics and audiences, with many praising Tremblay and Roberts' performances, Chbosky's direction, writing, musical score and faithfulness to Palacio's novel; the film was a box office success, grossing $306 million worldwide on a $20 million budget. At the 90th Academy Awards, the film was nominated for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. A spin-off sequel film, White Bird, will release in August 2023, with Gheisar reprising his role.


Canada's Hundred Days was the name given to the series of attacks made by the Canadian Corps between 8 August and 11 November 1918, during the Hundred Days Offensive of World War I by the French after the war. Reference to this period as Canada's Hundred Days is due to the role that the Canadian Corps repeatedly played as a spearhead during offensives.
During this time, the Canadian Corps fought as part of the British Fourth Army in the Battle of Amiens, then as part of the British First Army in the Second Battle of the Somme, Battle of the Scarpe, Battle of the Canal du Nord, Battle of Cambrai, Battle of the Selle, Battle of Valenciennes and finally at Mons, on the final day of combat before the Armistice of 11 November 1918. In terms of numbers, during those 96 days the Canadian Corps' four over-strength or "heavy" divisions totalling roughly 100,000 men, engaged and defeated or put to flight elements of 47 German divisions, which represented one quarter of the German forces faced by the Allied Powers fighting on the Western Front. However, their successes came at a heavy cost; Canadians suffered 20% of their battle-sustained casualties of the war during the same period. The Canadian Corps suffered 45,835 casualties during this offensive.


Opinion polling for the next United Kingdom general election is continually being carried out by various organisations to gauge voting intention. Most of the polling companies listed are members of the British Polling Council (BPC) and abide by its disclosure rules. The dates for these opinion polls range from the 2019 general election on 12 December to the present day.
Under the Dissolution and Calling of Parliament Act 2022, the next general election must be held no later than 28 January 2025. The Act ensures that, if it has not already been dissolved at the request of the prime minister, Parliament automatically dissolves five years after it first met (17 December 2024) and polling day occurs no more than 25 working days later taking into account Christmas Eve and bank holidays in any part of the United Kingdom.
Toy Story is a 1995 American computer-animated comedy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. The first installment in the  Toy Story franchise, it was the first entirely computer-animated feature film, as well as the first feature film from Pixar. It was directed by John Lasseter (in his feature directorial debut) and produced by Bonnie Arnold and Ralph Guggenheim, from a screenplay written by Joss Whedon, Andrew Stanton, Joel Cohen, and Alec Sokolow and a story by Lasseter, Stanton, Pete Docter, and Joe Ranft. The film features music by Randy Newman, and was executive-produced by Steve Jobs and Edwin Catmull. The film features the voices of Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Don Rickles, Jim Varney, Wallace Shawn, John Ratzenberger, Annie Potts, R. Lee Ermey, John Morris, Laurie Metcalf, and Erik von Detten.
Taking place in a world where toys come to life when humans are not present, the plot of Toy Story focuses on the relationship between an old-fashioned pull-string cowboy doll named Woody and a modern space cadet action figure, Buzz Lightyear, as Woody develops jealousy towards Buzz when he becomes their owner Andy's favorite toy.
Following the success of Tin Toy, a short film that was released in 1988, Pixar was approached by Disney to produce a computer-animated feature film that was told from a small toy's perspective. Lasseter, Stanton, and Docter wrote early story treatments, which were rejected by Disney, who wanted the film's tone to be "edgier". After several disastrous story reels, production was halted and the script was rewritten to better reflect the tone and theme Pixar desired: "toys deeply want children to play with them, and ... this desire drives their hopes, fears, and actions". The studio, then consisting of a relatively small number of employees, produced Toy Story under only minor financial constraints.
Toy Story premiered at the El Capitan Theatre in Los Angeles on November 19, 1995, and was released in theaters in North America on November 22 of that year. It was the highest-grossing film during its opening weekend, eventually grossing over $373 million worldwide, making it the second highest-grossing film of 1995. The film received critical acclaim and holds a 100% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was praised for the technical innovation of the 3D animation, screenplay, Newman's score, appeal to young age groups, and vocal performances (particularly Hanks and Allen); it is considered by many to be one of the best animated films ever made. The film received three Academy Award nominations (Best Original Screenplay (the first animated film to be nominated for this award), Best Original Song for "You've Got a Friend in Me", and Best Original Score) as well as honoring a non-competitive Special Achievement Academy Award.In 2005, Toy Story was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant", one of seven films designated in its first year of eligibility. The success of Toy Story launched a multimedia franchise and a series of three sequels, starting with Toy Story 2 (1999). The film also had a theatrical 3D re-release in 2009 as a part of a double feature with the second film.
A spin-off, Lightyear, was released in 2022, with Chris Evans voicing the in-universe human Buzz Lightyear who inspired the action figure toyline in the Toy Story films.


No pain, no gain (or "No gain without pain") is a proverb, used since the 1980s as an exercise motto that promises greater value rewards for the price of hard and even painful work. Under this conception competitive professionals, such as athletes and artists, are required to endure pain (physical suffering) and stress (mental/emotional suffering) to achieve professional excellence. Medical experts agree that the proverb is wrong for exercise.


House No. 44 is a 1955 Hindi film directed by M. K. Burman and produced by Dev Anand for his banner Navketan Films. The movie stars Dev Anand and Kalpana Kartik in a lead role. The film is also noted for its popular songs with music by S. D. Burman, with lyrics by Sahir Ludhianvi, including "Teri Duniya Mein Jeene Se" and "Chup Hai Dharti Chup Hain Chand Sitaare", sung by Hemant Kumar.
3 (three) is a number, numeral and digit. It is the natural number following 2 and preceding 4, and is the smallest odd prime number and the only prime preceding a square number. It has religious or cultural significance in many societies.
3 (three) is a number, numeral and digit. It is the natural number following 2 and preceding 4, and is the smallest odd prime number and the only prime preceding a square number. It has religious or cultural significance in many societies.
The 3M Open is a professional golf tournament in Minnesota on the PGA Tour, held at TPC Twin Cities in Blaine, a suburb north of Minneapolis. Announced by the PGA Tour in June 2018, the tournament debuted in 2019 on July 4–7. Minnesota-based company 3M is the title sponsor of the event.
It succeeded the 3M Championship, a PGA Tour Champions event for 26 years (1993–2018), held at TPC Twin Cities since 2001.


The 3M Open is a professional golf tournament in Minnesota on the PGA Tour, held at TPC Twin Cities in Blaine, a suburb north of Minneapolis. Announced by the PGA Tour in June 2018, the tournament debuted in 2019 on July 4–7. Minnesota-based company 3M is the title sponsor of the event.
It succeeded the 3M Championship, a PGA Tour Champions event for 26 years (1993–2018), held at TPC Twin Cities since 2001.


The M3 Bradley Cavalry Fighting Vehicle (CFV) is an American tracked armored reconnaissance vehicle manufactured by BAE Systems Platforms & Services (formerly United Defense). A member of the Bradley Fighting Vehicle family, the M3 CFV is used by heavy armored cavalry units in the United States Army.
The Novator Kalibr, (Калибр, caliber), also referred to as 3M54-1 Kalibr, 3M14 Biryuza (Бирюза, turquoise), (NATO reporting name SS-N-27 Sizzler and SS-N-30A) is a family of Russian cruise missiles developed by NPO Novator (OKB-8). It first saw service in 1994. There are ship-launched, submarine-launched and air-launched versions of the missile, and variants for anti-ship, anti-submarine and land attack use. Some versions have a second propulsion stage that initiates a supersonic sprint in the terminal approach to the target, reducing the time that target's defense systems have to react, while subsonic versions have greater range than the supersonic variants. The missile can carry a warhead weighing up to 500 kilograms (1,100 lb) of explosive or a thermonuclear warhead.
The M3 is an American .45-caliber submachine gun adopted by the U.S. Army on 12 December 1942, as the United States Submachine Gun, Cal. .45, M3. The M3 was chambered for the same .45 ACP round fired by the Thompson submachine gun, but was cheaper to mass produce and lighter, although, contrary to popular belief, it was less accurate. The M3 was commonly referred to as the "Grease Gun" or simply "the Greaser," owing to its visual similarity to the mechanic's tool.The M3 was intended as a replacement for the Thompson, and began to enter frontline service in mid-1944. The M3A1 variant was used in the Korean War and later conflicts. 
The M14 rifle, adopted in 1959, was intended to replace the M3A1 (as well as the M1 Garand, M1918 Browning Automatic Rifle and the M1 carbine) but the recoil of the M14's 7.62×51mm NATO cartridge proved too powerful for the submachine gun role. The M14 was in turn replaced by the M16 rifle in 1964, and this weapon (firing the intermediate 5.56×45mm NATO cartridge) was a better replacement for the M3A1. M3A1 submachine guns were retired from U.S. frontline service after 1959, but continued to be issued, for example as backup weapons for armored vehicle crews, until at least the Gulf War (1990-1991).
The M3 is an American .45-caliber submachine gun adopted by the U.S. Army on 12 December 1942, as the United States Submachine Gun, Cal. .45, M3. The M3 was chambered for the same .45 ACP round fired by the Thompson submachine gun, but was cheaper to mass produce and lighter, although, contrary to popular belief, it was less accurate. The M3 was commonly referred to as the "Grease Gun" or simply "the Greaser," owing to its visual similarity to the mechanic's tool.The M3 was intended as a replacement for the Thompson, and began to enter frontline service in mid-1944. The M3A1 variant was used in the Korean War and later conflicts. 
The M14 rifle, adopted in 1959, was intended to replace the M3A1 (as well as the M1 Garand, M1918 Browning Automatic Rifle and the M1 carbine) but the recoil of the M14's 7.62×51mm NATO cartridge proved too powerful for the submachine gun role. The M14 was in turn replaced by the M16 rifle in 1964, and this weapon (firing the intermediate 5.56×45mm NATO cartridge) was a better replacement for the M3A1. M3A1 submachine guns were retired from U.S. frontline service after 1959, but continued to be issued, for example as backup weapons for armored vehicle crews, until at least the Gulf War (1990-1991).
The Kosmos-3M (Russian: Космос-3М meaning "Cosmos", GRAU index 11K65M) was a Russian space launch vehicle, member of the Kosmos rocket family. It was a liquid-fueled two-stage launch vehicle, first launched in 1967 and with over 420 successful launches to its name. The Kosmos-3M used UDMH fuel and AK27I oxidizer (red fuming nitric acid) to lift roughly 1,400 kg (3,100 lb) of payload into orbit. It differed from the earlier Kosmos-3 in its finer control of the second-stage burn, allowing operators to tune the thrust and even channel it through nozzles that helped orient the rocket for the launching of multiple satellites at one time. PO Polyot manufactured these launch vehicles in the Russian city of Omsk for decades. It was originally scheduled to be retired from service in 2011; however, in April 2010 the Commander of the Russian Space Forces confirmed that it would be retired by the end of 2010. One further launch, with Kanopus-ST, was planned; however, this was cancelled in late 2012 as the launch vehicle had exceeded its design life while in storage ahead of the launch.
The Myasishchev M-4 Molot (Russian: Молот (Hammer), USAF/DoD reporting name "Type 37", ASCC reporting name Bison) was a four-engined strategic bomber designed by Vladimir Mikhailovich Myasishchev and manufactured by the Soviet Union in the 1950s to provide a Long Range Aviation bomber capable of attacking targets in North America.
The aircraft fell well short of its intended range and was not really capable of attacking the most valuable targets in the United States. As this became clear, production was shut down. In spite of the failure to produce a capable strategic design and the resulting small numbers, the M-4 nevertheless sparked fears of a "bomber gap" when 18 of the aircraft were flown in a public demonstration on May Day in 1954. The US responded by building hundreds of Boeing B-47s and B-52s to counter this perceived threat.
The design was updated with more efficient engines, inflight refuelling (IFR) support and the removal of the glass nose for optical bombing and moving the radar to this location. With these changes, production restarted as the 3M. Even with these modifications the design was not truly effective in the nuclear bomber role, and only 93 aircraft, both M-4s and 3Ms, were produced before the production line was shut down for good in 1963. Only 19 of these served on nuclear alert.
M-4s and 3Ms were primarily used as long-range maritime reconnaissance and strike aircraft and other supporting roles. Most were converted in the 1970s and 80s to tanker aircraft, especially as the Tupolev Tu-22M took over the maritime missions. The tanker conversions remained in service until 1994. Most surviving examples were broken up as part of post-Cold War arms limitations agreements.
3 (three) is a number, numeral and digit. It is the natural number following 2 and preceding 4, and is the smallest odd prime number and the only prime preceding a square number. It has religious or cultural significance in many societies.
CCGS Sir Humphrey Gilbert is a former Canadian Coast Guard light icebreaker and buoy tender that was later sold to private owner and renamed Polar Prince. The ship entered service with the Department of Transport Marine Service in 1959 and transferred to the newly created Canadian Coast Guard in 1962, active until 2001. The icebreaker was sold to private interests in Newfoundland and renamed Polar Prince, sitting mostly idle until resold in 2009 to GTX Technology Canada Limited for service in the Arctic Ocean as a commercial icebreaker. In 2017, the vessel was temporarily rechristened Canada C3 and used for a high-profile voyage around Canada's three maritime coasts as part of the nation's 150th anniversary. In November 2021, the ship was purchased by Miawpukek Horizon Maritime Service Ltd, a joint venture between Horizon Maritime and the Miawpukek First Nation and chartered for educational and research expedition use.
CCGS Sir Humphrey Gilbert is a former Canadian Coast Guard light icebreaker and buoy tender that was later sold to private owner and renamed Polar Prince. The ship entered service with the Department of Transport Marine Service in 1959 and transferred to the newly created Canadian Coast Guard in 1962, active until 2001. The icebreaker was sold to private interests in Newfoundland and renamed Polar Prince, sitting mostly idle until resold in 2009 to GTX Technology Canada Limited for service in the Arctic Ocean as a commercial icebreaker. In 2017, the vessel was temporarily rechristened Canada C3 and used for a high-profile voyage around Canada's three maritime coasts as part of the nation's 150th anniversary. In November 2021, the ship was purchased by Miawpukek Horizon Maritime Service Ltd, a joint venture between Horizon Maritime and the Miawpukek First Nation and chartered for educational and research expedition use.
CCGS Sir Humphrey Gilbert is a former Canadian Coast Guard light icebreaker and buoy tender that was later sold to private owner and renamed Polar Prince. The ship entered service with the Department of Transport Marine Service in 1959 and transferred to the newly created Canadian Coast Guard in 1962, active until 2001. The icebreaker was sold to private interests in Newfoundland and renamed Polar Prince, sitting mostly idle until resold in 2009 to GTX Technology Canada Limited for service in the Arctic Ocean as a commercial icebreaker. In 2017, the vessel was temporarily rechristened Canada C3 and used for a high-profile voyage around Canada's three maritime coasts as part of the nation's 150th anniversary. In November 2021, the ship was purchased by Miawpukek Horizon Maritime Service Ltd, a joint venture between Horizon Maritime and the Miawpukek First Nation and chartered for educational and research expedition use.
CCGS Sir Humphrey Gilbert is a former Canadian Coast Guard light icebreaker and buoy tender that was later sold to private owner and renamed Polar Prince. The ship entered service with the Department of Transport Marine Service in 1959 and transferred to the newly created Canadian Coast Guard in 1962, active until 2001. The icebreaker was sold to private interests in Newfoundland and renamed Polar Prince, sitting mostly idle until resold in 2009 to GTX Technology Canada Limited for service in the Arctic Ocean as a commercial icebreaker. In 2017, the vessel was temporarily rechristened Canada C3 and used for a high-profile voyage around Canada's three maritime coasts as part of the nation's 150th anniversary. In November 2021, the ship was purchased by Miawpukek Horizon Maritime Service Ltd, a joint venture between Horizon Maritime and the Miawpukek First Nation and chartered for educational and research expedition use.
CCGS Sir Humphrey Gilbert is a former Canadian Coast Guard light icebreaker and buoy tender that was later sold to private owner and renamed Polar Prince. The ship entered service with the Department of Transport Marine Service in 1959 and transferred to the newly created Canadian Coast Guard in 1962, active until 2001. The icebreaker was sold to private interests in Newfoundland and renamed Polar Prince, sitting mostly idle until resold in 2009 to GTX Technology Canada Limited for service in the Arctic Ocean as a commercial icebreaker. In 2017, the vessel was temporarily rechristened Canada C3 and used for a high-profile voyage around Canada's three maritime coasts as part of the nation's 150th anniversary. In November 2021, the ship was purchased by Miawpukek Horizon Maritime Service Ltd, a joint venture between Horizon Maritime and the Miawpukek First Nation and chartered for educational and research expedition use.
The 3M National Teaching Fellowship is a prestigious recognition of excellence in educational leadership and teaching at the university and college level in Canada. It is conferred by the Society for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning. In 1986, the Society for Teaching and Learning in Higher Education (STLHE) and 3M Canada partnered to recognize exceptional contributions to teaching and learning in Canadian post-secondary education. The community of 3M National Teaching Fellows embodies the highest ideals of teaching excellence and scholarship with a commitment to encourage and support the educational experience of every learner. Up to ten Fellowships are selected annually.


Canada Day (French: Fête du Canada), formerly known as Dominion Day (French: Fête du Dominion), is the national day of Canada. A federal statutory holiday, it celebrates the anniversary of Canadian Confederation which occurred on July 1, 1867, with the passing of the British North America Act, 1867, when the three separate colonies of the United Canadas, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick were united into a single dominion within the British Empire called Canada.Originally called Dominion Day (French: Le Jour de la Confédération), the holiday was renamed in 1982, the same year that the Canadian constitution was patriated by the Canada Act, 1982, which severed the vestiges of legal dependence on the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Canada Day celebrations take place throughout the country, as well as in various locations around the world attended by Canadians living abroad.
The BMW M5 is a high performance variant of the BMW 5 Series marketed under the BMW M sub-brand. It is considered an iconic vehicle in the sports sedan category. The majority of M5s have been produced in the sedan (saloon) body style, but in some countries the M5 was also available as a wagon (estate) from 1992 to 1995 and from 2006 to 2010.The first M5 model was hand-built in 1985 on the E28 535i chassis with a modified engine from the M1 that made it the fastest production sedan at the time. M5 models have been produced for every generation of the 5 Series since 1985.
M3 was a Canadian English language Category A cable and satellite specialty channel owned by Bell Media.  Established in 1998 as MuchMoreMusic, the network began as a spin-off of the youth-oriented MuchMusic, targeting an older demographic with adult contemporary and classic music videos, along with music news programs, concert specials, and pop culture programming (usually sourced from the U.S. network VH1, which shared a similar positioning).
Under Bell ownership and its final branding as M3, and following the lead of its parent network, the channel adopted a general entertainment format and largely phased out its remaining music programming. On September 1, 2016, M3 was shut down and replaced under its license and most channel allotments by Gusto.

